---
cover: ../.gitbook/assets/IMG_20230730_150927.jpg
coverY: -46.0390977443609
---

# ✈ 2023

## Things discovered

### Apps & software

* [**Splitwise**](../saas/#financials): This might have been in the 2022 review because I've actually used it in Phantasialand. However I've since forgotten about it, but thanks to H\* it has resurfaced on my mind (plus she keeps pushing me to put it in my yearly review 🤭😘). Splitwise allows tracking the expenses of a group of people. You can always see the balance you owe or are owed. This is especially useful when you're travelling together - it doesn't matter who pays for stuff - at the end of the trip you simply pay the remaining balance.
* **ChatGPT & LLMs in general**: Imho this is probably the biggest advance in computing since the modern smartphone. Yes there is a lot of hype surrounding AI but having used ChatGPT extensively for both work an personal use I would not trade it for almost any other piece of software. Personally I've replaced a lot of my Google searches with ChatGPT queries. I'm convinced that even if there are no more advances (unlikely) this will keep having ripple effects through IT and the global economy in general as more and more companies start adopting LLMs in their workflows.
* **WhatsApp**: Having mostly used Telegram for many years I've recently rediscovered WhatsApp. The app definitely got a lot better since I've last decided that I don't like it 😄. There's two things that I actually prefer over Telegram. When reacting to a message all standard iOS emojis are available and not just a subset. I didn't know how annoying this is until I started using both chat apps regularly. Secondly the search.. it has been brought to my attention that the search in Telegram sucks and sadly I have to agree. So yea.. good on you META :thumbsup:

### Services

* [**Finpension 3A**](https://finpension.ch/en/3a/): This year I've been using this 3A service. Although I did keep Frankly for my existing 3A accounts. The advantages of Finpension are slightly lower fees (0.39% vs 0.45%)  and more choices on what products to invest in. It also allows 99% stocks compared to Franklys 95%.&#x20;

### Activities

* [**Via ferrata**](../sport/via-ferrata.md): H\* introduced me to Via ferratas, which are protected climbing routes in the mountains. At first I wasn't sure if I'd be able to handle the heights but I've since invested into my own via ferrata kit because its such a cool hobby. Basically like playing an adventure video game in the real world.

### Cool Places

* [Malmö, Sweden](../travel/sweden.md#malmoe)
* [Copenhagen, Denmark](../travel/denmark.md#copenhagen)
* [Thailand](../travel/thailand.md): Bangkok, Khao Sok National Park, Koh Samui
* [Malaysia](../travel/malaysia.md): George Town, Kuala Lumpur, Malacca
* [Singapore](../travel/singapore.md)

## Goodbyes

* **Bring**: A shopping list SaaS/app that I discovered and used in [2022](2022.md#services). It used to integrate well with Google Home/Assistant but sadly Google has decided in 2023 to no longer allow third party apps for lists. For me this is a KO criteria - so I'm now using Google Keep instead of Bring. Hopefully it doesn't end up on the Google Graveyard next... 🙃.
